Date: 11:48 AM PST · November 6, 2025

Headline: Sora for Android saw nearly half a million installs on its first day

Text Body:
Sora’s Android launch is off to an auspicious start. On its first day on the Google Play Store, the AI video app from ChatGPT maker OpenAI saw an estimated 470,000 downloads across the markets where it was available, according to new estimates from app intelligence provider Appfigures .

That makes the Android launch more than 4x the size of the iOS launch, with 327% more installs (360,000) — but the firm notes that’s not an apples-to-apples comparison.

On iOS, Sora was only available in the U.S. and Canada, and it was invite-only.

Sora on Android, however, is available in the U.S., Canada, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam, and OpenAI dropped the invite requirement in late October for its top markets.

You can now get into the Sora app without an invite code in the US, Canada, Japan, and Korea. Limited time only.

The app was a breakout hit following its debut, despite its earlier exclusive status. The iOS app hit over a million installs within its first week and quickly jumped to the top of the App Store . Today, it’s still ranking as the No. 4 app on the U.S. App Store’s iPhone Top Free Charts.

With Sora, users leverage AI to make videos using prompts. These videos can also include the users and their friends animated by AI, via a feature known as Cameos. Videos are scrollable in a TikTok-like vertical feed, so you can see what other people are making with the technology.

Appfigures has also revised its earlier estimates for first-day iOS downloads of the Sora app. Originally, its models said the app saw around 56,000 day-one downloads. Now that more time has passed, the model can more accurately predict that the figure was closer to 110,000, with about 69,300 of those being U.S. installs.

By comparison, the Sora Android app saw approximately 296,000 U.S.-based installs, out of the 470,000 total, indicating there’s still interest in the AI video maker, even after the initial iOS launch buzz wore off.

Sora also competes with Meta AI, which released its mobile app to European users today , following its earlier U.S. debut.
