Date: 10:22 AM PST · November 6, 2025

Headline: Meta brings its short-form video feed of AI slop to Europe

Text Body:
Meta announced on Thursday that Vibes, its short-form video feed of AI-generated videos, is launching in Europe in the Meta AI app. Think TikTok or Instagram Reels, but every single video you come across is AI-generated.

The rollout comes six weeks after Meta introduced the feed in the U.S. A few days after Meta’s launch, OpenAI released Sora , a social media platform for creating and sharing AI-generated videos.

With Vibes, you can create and share short-form AI-generated videos and access a dedicated feed that displays AI videos from others. Meta says your feed will become more personalized to your interests over time.

When creating content, you can generate a video using prompts or remix someone else’s video. You can add new visuals, layer in music, or adjust styles to match your individual taste.

“This is an inherently social and collaborative creation experience, where you’re encouraged to remix, co-create, and build stories together with friends,” Meta wrote in a blog post. “Videos and content can be shared and posted directly to the Vibes feed, sent to friends, or cross-posted to Instagram and Facebook Stories and Reels.”

When Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg unveiled the feed in September, the user comments in response to his announcement post were about what you’d expect, especially since no one really wants an AI-generated version of TikTok.

One of the top comments on the post read: “gang nobody wants this,” while another popular comment said: “Bro’s posting ai slop on his own app.” Another comment read: “I think I speak for everyone when I say: What….?”

While Meta is embracing AI-generated content, companies like YouTube are looking to crack down on the issue , as the rise of AI technology has caused social media platforms to become flooded with AI slop — a term meaning low-quality AI content.

Meta’s debut of Vibes is particularly puzzling, given that the company said earlier this year that it was tackling “unoriginal” content and advised creators to focus on “authentic storytelling,” rather than short videos offering little value.

Despite its earlier messaging, Meta is touting the launch of Vibes, stating that media generation in the Meta AI app has jumped more than tenfold since its launch.
